[Music]
the coconut rhinoceros beetle is an
invasive pest and it came to Guam and
has been devastating the palm trees in
Guam a big concern is it may go to
California and devastate the citrus
industry because they eat citrus fruits
so they like to stop it in Hawaii before
it's too late
the difficulty is it's very difficult to
know where these beetles come from where
they track them so I've been working on
being able to detect them acoustically
so can we understand what their signals
are in terms of their acoustic wingbeat
detect them classify them and perhaps
track them all the work is done in a
quarantine area so it's very secure
actually more secure than most military
bases at the University of oh I
canvassed so there's a colony of these
things kind of like alien where they're
trying to stay the colony of the
creatures there we've used acoustic
microphone array which is a set of
microphones sync together and then we've
ground truth did with optical acoustic
sensor which other people have used and
then also the high-speed camera for a
small segment so we're able to get their
wingbeat frequencies and typically the
adult males it's around 45 to 50 Hertz
we'd like to be able to monitor multiple
so it's it's you can't just dig around
and do that and that's what large crews
the state of Hawaii is spending so if we
can put a passive acoustic sensors
perhaps at night we can detect that
they're flying in there or we can do it
from a trap coming out of mulch piles
monitoring to see where they fly out at
night you'll have some idea their
dispersal pattern so we looked at the
fluid mechanics of how stinging little
inject poison and so this strategy of
using a stinger is quite unique in the
plant kingdom it's estimated that around
1% of plants have stingers of some form
now the nettle family has a unique
stinger which looks a little bit like a
pipette like this so it sits on the leaf
and as you touch it it injects a poison
so this stinger this really it's a one
cell it has a mineral reinforced cell
wall so let's think of it as a glass
syringe and it sits on a soft base first
you have to penetrate the skin so
there's a little cap on the stinger that
falls off just as you penetrate that
releases a small amount of the
so say a few percent then you push it
down so you compress the base here a
little bit as you do like this and that
releases a bit more but the majority of
the poison is really released in the
bending which compresses this there's a
little poison reservoir so you can
essentially empty the entire thing out
and you can map the flow going out as a
function of how much you Bend so
understanding the mechanics of stinging
objects is important for several reasons
so one is to understand phenomena and
biology but there are many technical
areas where you use stingers so in
medical research there is the need to
inject and so understanding the
mechanics of these systems is important
to enable efficient drug delivery that
does not damage the tissue jellyfish
stinging cells called the method sites
are one of the most amazing fast and
boldest natural systems injecting toxins
and poisons material so we are talking
about biological cells something like 10
micron in diameter that consists a
capsule about the same diameter and
inside this capsule there is a needle
what we call tubule which is folded
inside out ready for being released the
needle is about 40 to 50 times larger
longer than the diameter of the capsule
one of the interesting part of how these
needles are being released in there are
folded inside out like sleeves that I'm
showing here and when it starts to
elongate it's not really elongating it's
not injecting like a syringe but it's
just going through this process that I
showed them new understanding is that
instead of focusing on the environment
around the capsule what one need to
is to try to focus its attention on the
very long path along the needle
elongation and it can be used to better
understand how animals protect
themselves against thinking how maybe we
can develop means to protect human
beings swimmers in the in the ocean and
there is a whole new field of developing
nanotubes which will be steady or
dynamic and maybe we can mimic what we
found in those jellyfish in order to
develop nanotubes in the future
you